PREPARATION.md, before:

#Software
For the workshop the following software should be installed:

### Git
A recent git installation is needed to download the exercise files.  
Check:  
```
> git --version                                                             
git version 1.8.5.5
```


### Node.js & NPM & Node Packages
Node and NPM is the fundament for the JavaScript Toolchain.
The Node installer can be downloaded here: http://nodejs.org/download/

Check:
```
> node --version
v0.10.25
> npm --version
1.3.24
```

The following npm packages should be installed globally:
```
npm install -g grunt-cli, bower, yeoman
```



### Browser
A recent Chrome and/or Firefox Browser must be available.  
The following extensions should be installed:
- Postman Extension for Chrome: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/postman-rest-client-packa/fhbjgbiflinjbdggehcddcbncdddomop?hl=en
- JetBrains IDE Support for Chrome: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/jetbrains-ide-support/hmhgeddbohgjknpmjagkdomcpobmllji
- RESTCilent AddOn for Firefox: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/restclient/

### WebStorm
The WebStorm IDE from JetBrains should be installed. 
There is a free 30 day trial version of WebStorm available here: http://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/

### Java & Maven
The Java projects are based on Java 7 and Maven 3.  
Check:
```
> java -version                                                                
java version "1.7.0_51"

> mvn -version
Apache Maven 3.1.1 (0728685237757ffbf44136acec0402957f723d9a; 2013-09-17 17:22:22+0200)
```

### JBoss App Server
The examples use JBoss EAP 6.2. A copy can be downloaded from here:  
http://www.jboss.org/jbossas/downloads/  
(unfortunately a registration is necessary)
  
<br/>

# Preparations

To reduce the network traffic during the course the following steps should be executed before the workshop:

Please check out the following git repository:  
`git clone --recursive https://github.com/jbandi/JavaScriptWorkshop.git`

From within the cloned repository execute the following commands:
```
cd 01-Intro/02-SimpisticToDo
npm install
...
bower install
...
```
Also from within the cloned repository execute the following commands:
```
cd 06-FullStack/cors/javaee-backend/courserater-javaee
mvn clean package
...

```

Commit message:

Preparation should also pull npm packages for toolchain exercise

PREPARATION.md, after:

#Software
For the workshop the following software should be installed:

### Git
A recent git installation is needed to download the exercise files.  
Check:  
```
> git --version                                                             
git version 1.8.5.5
```


### Node.js & NPM & Node Packages
Node and NPM is the fundament for the JavaScript Toolchain.
The Node installer can be downloaded here: http://nodejs.org/download/

Check:
```
> node --version
v0.10.25
> npm --version
1.3.24
```

The following npm packages should be installed globally:
```
npm install -g grunt-cli, bower, yeoman
```



### Browser
A recent Chrome and/or Firefox Browser must be available.  
The following extensions should be installed:
- Postman Extension for Chrome: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/postman-rest-client-packa/fhbjgbiflinjbdggehcddcbncdddomop?hl=en
- JetBrains IDE Support for Chrome: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/jetbrains-ide-support/hmhgeddbohgjknpmjagkdomcpobmllji
- RESTCilent AddOn for Firefox: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/restclient/

### WebStorm
The WebStorm IDE from JetBrains should be installed. 
There is a free 30 day trial version of WebStorm available here: http://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/

### Java & Maven
The Java projects are based on Java 7 and Maven 3.  
Check:
```
> java -version                                                                
java version "1.7.0_51"

> mvn -version
Apache Maven 3.1.1 (0728685237757ffbf44136acec0402957f723d9a; 2013-09-17 17:22:22+0200)
```

### JBoss App Server
The examples use JBoss EAP 6.2. A copy can be downloaded from here:  
http://www.jboss.org/jbossas/downloads/  
(unfortunately a registration is necessary)
  
<br/>

# Preparations

To reduce the network traffic during the course the following steps should be executed before the workshop:

Please check out the following git repository:  
`git clone --recursive https://github.com/jbandi/JavaScriptWorkshop.git`

From within the cloned repository execute the following commands:
```
cd 01-Intro/02-SimpisticToDo
npm install
...
bower install
...
```
Also from within the cloned repository execute the following commands:
```
cd 04-Toolchain/01-JavaScript
npm install
...
```

Also from within the cloned repository execute the following commands:
```
cd 06-FullStack/cors/javaee-backend/courserater-javaee
mvn clean package
...

```
